doc/invocation.rst, before:

.. default-role:: any

.. _invocation:

Invocation of sphinx-quickstart
===============================

The :program:`sphinx-quickstart` script generates a Sphinx documentation set.
It is called like this:

.. code-block:: console

   $ sphinx-quickstart [options] [projectdir]

where *projectdir* is the Sphinx documentation set directory in which you want
to place. If you omit *projectdir*, files are generated into current directory
by default.

The :program:`sphinx-quickstart` script has several options:

.. program:: sphinx-quickstart

.. option:: -q, --quiet

   Quiet mode that will skips interactive wizard to specify options.
   This option requires `-p`, `-a` and `-v` options.

.. option:: -h, --help, --version

   Display usage summary or Sphinx version.


Structure options
-----------------

.. option:: --sep

   If specified, separate source and build directories.

.. option:: --dot=DOT

   Inside the root directory, two more directories will be created;
   "_templates" for custom HTML templates and "_static" for custom stylesheets
   and other static files. You can enter another prefix (such as ".") to
   replace the underscore.

Project basic options
---------------------

.. option:: -p PROJECT, --project=PROJECT

   Project name will be set. (see :confval:`project`).

.. option:: -a AUTHOR, --author=AUTHOR

   Author names. (see :confval:`copyright`).

.. option:: -v VERSION

   Version of project. (see :confval:`version`).

.. option:: -r RELEASE, --release=RELEASE

   Release of project. (see :confval:`release`).

.. option:: -l LANGUAGE, --language=LANGUAGE

   Document language. (see :confval:`language`).

.. option:: --suffix=SUFFIX

   Source file suffix. (see :confval:`source_suffix`).

.. option:: --master=MASTER

   Master document name. (see :confval:`master_doc`).

.. option:: --epub

   Use epub.

Extension options
-----------------

.. option:: --ext-autodoc

   Enable `sphinx.ext.autodoc` extension.

.. option:: --ext-doctest

   Enable `sphinx.ext.doctest` extension.

.. option:: --ext-intersphinx

   Enable `sphinx.ext.intersphinx` extension.

.. option:: --ext-todo

   Enable `sphinx.ext.todo` extension.

.. option:: --ext-coverage

   Enable `sphinx.ext.coverage` extension.

.. option:: --ext-imgmath

   Enable `sphinx.ext.imgmath` extension.

.. option:: --ext-mathjax

   Enable `sphinx.ext.mathjax` extension.

.. option:: --ext-ifconfig

   Enable `sphinx.ext.ifconfig` extension.

.. option:: --ext-viewcode

   Enable `sphinx.ext.viewcode` extension.

.. option:: --extensions=EXTENSIONS

   Enable arbitary extensions.


Makefile and Batchfile creation options
---------------------------------------

.. option:: --use-make-mode, --no-use-make-mode

   Makefile/make.bat uses (or not use) make-mode. Default is use.

   .. versionchanged:: 1.5
      make-mode is default.

.. option:: --makefile, --no-makefile

   Create (or not create) makefile.

.. option:: --batchfile, --no-batchfile

   Create (or not create) batchfile


.. versionadded:: 1.3
   Add various options for sphinx-quickstart invocation.

Project templating
------------------

.. option:: -t, --templatedir=TEMPLATEDIR

   Template directory for template files.  You can modify the templates of
   sphinx project files generated by quickstart.  Following Jinja2 template
   files are allowed:

   * master_doc.rst_t
   * conf.py_t
   * Makefile_t
   * Makefile.new_t
   * make.bat_t
   * make.bat.new_t

   In detail, please refer the system template files Sphinx provides.
   (sphinx/templates/quickstart)

.. option:: -d NAME=VALUE

   Define a template variable

.. versionadded:: 1.5
   Project templating options for sphinx-quickstart


Invocation of sphinx-build
==========================

The :program:`sphinx-build` script builds a Sphinx documentation set.  It is
called like this:

.. code-block:: console

   $ sphinx-build [options] sourcedir builddir [filenames]

where *sourcedir* is the :term:`source directory`, and *builddir* is the
directory in which you want to place the built documentation.  Most of the time,
you don't need to specify any *filenames*.

The :program:`sphinx-build` script has several options:

.. program:: sphinx-build

.. option:: -b buildername

   The most important option: it selects a builder.  The most common builders
   are:

   **html**
      Build HTML pages.  This is the default builder.

   **dirhtml**
      Build HTML pages, but with a single directory per document.  Makes for
      prettier URLs (no ``.html``) if served from a webserver.

   **singlehtml**
      Build a single HTML with the whole content.

   **htmlhelp**, **qthelp**, **devhelp**, **epub**
      Build HTML files with additional information for building a documentation
      collection in one of these formats.

   **applehelp**
      Build an Apple Help Book.  Requires :program:`hiutil` and
      :program:`codesign`, which are not Open Source and presently only
      available on Mac OS X 10.6 and higher.

   **latex**
      Build LaTeX sources that can be compiled to a PDF document using
      :program:`pdflatex`.

   **man**
      Build manual pages in groff format for UNIX systems.

   **texinfo**
      Build Texinfo files that can be processed into Info files using
      :program:`makeinfo`.

   **text**
      Build plain text files.

   **gettext**
      Build gettext-style message catalogs (``.pot`` files).

   **doctest**
      Run all doctests in the documentation, if the :mod:`~sphinx.ext.doctest`
      extension is enabled.

   **linkcheck**
      Check the integrity of all external links.

   **xml**
     Build Docutils-native XML files.

   **pseudoxml**
     Build compact pretty-printed "pseudo-XML" files displaying the
     internal structure of the intermediate document trees.

   See :ref:`builders` for a list of all builders shipped with Sphinx.
   Extensions can add their own builders.

.. option:: -a

   If given, always write all output files.  The default is to only write output
   files for new and changed source files.  (This may not apply to all
   builders.)

.. option:: -E

   Don't use a saved :term:`environment` (the structure caching all
   cross-references), but rebuild it completely.  The default is to only read
   and parse source files that are new or have changed since the last run.

.. option:: -t tag

   Define the tag *tag*.  This is relevant for :rst:dir:`only` directives that
   only include their content if this tag is set.

   .. versionadded:: 0.6

.. option:: -d path

   Since Sphinx has to read and parse all source files before it can write an
   output file, the parsed source files are cached as "doctree pickles".
   Normally, these files are put in a directory called :file:`.doctrees` under
   the build directory; with this option you can select a different cache
   directory (the doctrees can be shared between all builders).

.. option:: -j N

   Distribute the build over *N* processes in parallel, to make building on
   multiprocessor machines more effective.  Note that not all parts and not all
   builders of Sphinx can be parallelized.

   .. versionadded:: 1.2
      This option should be considered *experimental*.

.. option:: -c path

   Don't look for the :file:`conf.py` in the source directory, but use the given
   configuration directory instead.  Note that various other files and paths
   given by configuration values are expected to be relative to the
   configuration directory, so they will have to be present at this location
   too.

   .. versionadded:: 0.3

.. option:: -C

   Don't look for a configuration file; only take options via the ``-D`` option.

   .. versionadded:: 0.5

.. option:: -D setting=value

   Override a configuration value set in the :file:`conf.py` file.  The value
   must be a number, string, list or dictionary value.

   For lists, you can separate elements with a comma like this: ``-D
   html_theme_path=path1,path2``.

   For dictionary values, supply the setting name and key like this:
   ``-D latex_elements.docclass=scrartcl``.

   For boolean values, use ``0`` or ``1`` as the value.

   .. versionchanged:: 0.6
      The value can now be a dictionary value.

   .. versionchanged:: 1.3
      The value can now also be a list value.

.. option:: -A name=value

   Make the *name* assigned to *value* in the HTML templates.

   .. versionadded:: 0.5

.. option:: -n

   Run in nit-picky mode.  Currently, this generates warnings for all missing
   references.  See the config value :confval:`nitpick_ignore` for a way to
   exclude some references as "known missing".

.. option:: -N

   Do not emit colored output.

.. option:: -v

   Increase verbosity (loglevel).  This option can be given up to three times
   to get more debug logging output.  It implies :option:`-T`.

   .. versionadded:: 1.2

.. option:: -q

   Do not output anything on standard output, only write warnings and errors to
   standard error.

.. option:: -Q

   Do not output anything on standard output, also suppress warnings.  Only
   errors are written to standard error.

.. option:: -w file

   Write warnings (and errors) to the given file, in addition to standard error.

.. option:: -W

   Turn warnings into errors.  This means that the build stops at the first
   warning and ``sphinx-build`` exits with exit status 1.

.. option:: -T

   Display the full traceback when an unhandled exception occurs.  Otherwise,
   only a summary is displayed and the traceback information is saved to a file
   for further analysis.

   .. versionadded:: 1.2

.. option:: -P

   (Useful for debugging only.)  Run the Python debugger, :mod:`pdb`, if an
   unhandled exception occurs while building.

.. option:: -h, --help, --version

   Display usage summary or Sphinx version.

   .. versionadded:: 1.2

You can also give one or more filenames on the command line after the source and
build directories.  Sphinx will then try to build only these output files (and
their dependencies).

Environment variables
---------------------

The :program:`sphinx-build` refers following environment variables:

.. describe:: MAKE

   A path to make command.  A command name is also allowed.
   :program:`sphinx-build` uses it to invoke sub-build process on make-mode.

Makefile options
----------------

The :file:`Makefile` and :file:`make.bat` files created by
:program:`sphinx-quickstart` usually run :program:`sphinx-build` only with the
:option:`-b` and :option:`-d` options.  However, they support the following
variables to customize behavior:

.. describe:: PAPER

   The value for :confval:`latex_paper_size`.

.. describe:: SPHINXBUILD

   The command to use instead of ``sphinx-build``.

.. describe:: BUILDDIR

   The build directory to use instead of the one chosen in
   :program:`sphinx-quickstart`.

.. describe:: SPHINXOPTS

   Additional options for :program:`sphinx-build`.

.. _when-deprecation-warnings-are-displayed:

Deprecation Warnings
--------------------

If any deprecation warning like ``RemovedInSphinxXXXWarning`` are displayed
when building a user's document, some Sphinx extension is using deprecated
features. In that case, please report it to author of the extension.

To disable the deprecation warnings, please set ``PYTHONWARNINGS=`` environment
variable to your environment. For example:

* ``PYTHONWARNINGS= make html`` (Linux/Mac)
* ``export PYTHONWARNINGS=`` and do ``make html`` (Linux/Mac)
* ``set PYTHONWARNINGS=`` and do ``make html`` (Windows)
* modify your Makefile/make.bat and set the environment variable


.. _invocation-apidoc:

Invocation of sphinx-apidoc
===========================

The :program:`sphinx-apidoc` generates completely automatic API documentation
for a Python package.  It is called like this:

.. code-block:: console

   $ sphinx-apidoc [options] -o outputdir packagedir [pathnames]

where *packagedir* is the path to the package to document, and *outputdir* is
the directory where the generated sources are placed.  Any *pathnames* given
are paths to be excluded ignored during generation.

.. warning::

   ``sphinx-apidoc`` generates reST files that use :mod:`sphinx.ext.autodoc` to
   document all found modules.  If any modules have side effects on import,
   these will be executed by ``autodoc`` when ``sphinx-build`` is run.

   If you document scripts (as opposed to library modules), make sure their main
   routine is protected by a ``if __name__ == '__main__'`` condition.


The :program:`sphinx-apidoc` script has several options:

.. program:: sphinx-apidoc

.. option:: -o outputdir

   Gives the directory in which to place the generated output.

.. option:: -f, --force

   Normally, sphinx-apidoc does not overwrite any files.  Use this option to
   force the overwrite of all files that it generates.

.. option:: -n, --dry-run

   With this option given, no files will be written at all.

.. option:: -s suffix

   This option selects the file name suffix of output files.  By default, this
   is ``rst``.

.. option:: -d maxdepth

   This sets the maximum depth of the table of contents, if one is generated.

.. option:: -l, --follow-links

   This option makes sphinx-apidoc follow symbolic links when recursing the
   filesystem to discover packages and modules. You may need it if you want
   to generate documentation from a source directory managed by
   `collective.recipe.omelette
   <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/collective.recipe.omelette/>`_.
   By default, symbolic links are skipped.

   .. versionadded:: 1.2

.. option:: -T, --no-toc

   This prevents the generation of a table-of-contents file ``modules.rst``.
   This has no effect when :option:`--full` is given.

.. option:: -F, --full

   This option makes sphinx-apidoc create a full Sphinx project, using the same
   mechanism as :program:`sphinx-quickstart`.  Most configuration values are set
   to default values, but you can influence the most important ones using the
   following options.

.. option:: --implicit-namespaces

   By default sphinx-apidoc processes sys.path searching for modules only.
   Python 3.3 introduced :pep:`420` implicit namespaces that allow module path
   structures such as ``foo/bar/module.py`` or ``foo/bar/baz/__init__.py``
   (notice that ``bar`` and ``foo`` are namespaces, not modules).

   Specifying this option interprets paths recursively according to PEP-0420.

.. option:: -M

   This option makes sphinx-apidoc put module documentation before submodule
   documentation.

.. option:: -a

   Append module_path to sys.path.

.. option:: -H project

   Sets the project name to put in generated files (see :confval:`project`).

.. option:: -A author

   Sets the author name(s) to put in generated files (see :confval:`copyright`).

.. option:: -V version

   Sets the project version to put in generated files (see :confval:`version`).

.. option:: -R release

   Sets the project release to put in generated files (see :confval:`release`).

Commit message:

ADMIN/DEV/DOC
AUTHORS (ADMIN): Add name

doc/invocation.rst (DOC):

 * Minor edits to paragraph introducing environment variables
   used by ``sphinx-build``
 * Added exposition on Linux `make` and Windows `make.bat', including
   description of the new capabilities added to make.bat

templates/quickstart/make.bat.new_t (DEV):

 * Change the exit approach for the (disallowed) `-b` option,
   to use the more proper `exit /b 1` syntax after a new
   `:end_error` label
 * Add comment that the arg parsing needs to be updated if new
   options are added that take values

tests/winmake/test_winmake.bat (ADMIN):

 * Change header in test results to full word "Arguments"
 * Expand info in 'help' display to note that tests don't check
   for whether the build operation completed as intended per the
   arguments passed, but instead just test for a success or
   failure exit ERRORLEVEL.
 * Clarify help as re the `-s` option

doc/invocation.rst, after:

.. default-role:: any

.. _invocation:

Invocation of sphinx-quickstart
===============================

The :program:`sphinx-quickstart` script generates a Sphinx documentation set.
It is called like this:

.. code-block:: console

   $ sphinx-quickstart [options] [projectdir]

where *projectdir* is the Sphinx documentation set directory in which you want
to place. If you omit *projectdir*, files are generated into current directory
by default.

The :program:`sphinx-quickstart` script has several options:

.. program:: sphinx-quickstart

.. option:: -q, --quiet

   Quiet mode that will skips interactive wizard to specify options.
   This option requires `-p`, `-a` and `-v` options.

.. option:: -h, --help, --version

   Display usage summary or Sphinx version.


Structure options
-----------------

.. option:: --sep

   If specified, separate source and build directories.

.. option:: --dot=DOT

   Inside the root directory, two more directories will be created;
   "_templates" for custom HTML templates and "_static" for custom stylesheets
   and other static files. You can enter another prefix (such as ".") to
   replace the underscore.

Project basic options
---------------------

.. option:: -p PROJECT, --project=PROJECT

   Project name will be set. (see :confval:`project`).

.. option:: -a AUTHOR, --author=AUTHOR

   Author names. (see :confval:`copyright`).

.. option:: -v VERSION

   Version of project. (see :confval:`version`).

.. option:: -r RELEASE, --release=RELEASE

   Release of project. (see :confval:`release`).

.. option:: -l LANGUAGE, --language=LANGUAGE

   Document language. (see :confval:`language`).

.. option:: --suffix=SUFFIX

   Source file suffix. (see :confval:`source_suffix`).

.. option:: --master=MASTER

   Master document name. (see :confval:`master_doc`).

.. option:: --epub

   Use epub.

Extension options
-----------------

.. option:: --ext-autodoc

   Enable `sphinx.ext.autodoc` extension.

.. option:: --ext-doctest

   Enable `sphinx.ext.doctest` extension.

.. option:: --ext-intersphinx

   Enable `sphinx.ext.intersphinx` extension.

.. option:: --ext-todo

   Enable `sphinx.ext.todo` extension.

.. option:: --ext-coverage

   Enable `sphinx.ext.coverage` extension.

.. option:: --ext-imgmath

   Enable `sphinx.ext.imgmath` extension.

.. option:: --ext-mathjax

   Enable `sphinx.ext.mathjax` extension.

.. option:: --ext-ifconfig

   Enable `sphinx.ext.ifconfig` extension.

.. option:: --ext-viewcode

   Enable `sphinx.ext.viewcode` extension.

.. option:: --extensions=EXTENSIONS

   Enable arbitary extensions.


Makefile and Batchfile creation options
---------------------------------------

.. option:: --use-make-mode, --no-use-make-mode

   Makefile/make.bat uses (or not use) make-mode. Default is use.

   .. versionchanged:: 1.5
      make-mode is default.

.. option:: --makefile, --no-makefile

   Create (or not create) makefile.

.. option:: --batchfile, --no-batchfile

   Create (or not create) batchfile


.. versionadded:: 1.3
   Add various options for sphinx-quickstart invocation.

Project templating
------------------

.. option:: -t, --templatedir=TEMPLATEDIR

   Template directory for template files.  You can modify the templates of
   sphinx project files generated by quickstart.  Following Jinja2 template
   files are allowed:

   * master_doc.rst_t
   * conf.py_t
   * Makefile_t
   * Makefile.new_t
   * make.bat_t
   * make.bat.new_t

   In detail, please refer the system template files Sphinx provides.
   (sphinx/templates/quickstart)

.. option:: -d NAME=VALUE

   Define a template variable

.. versionadded:: 1.5
   Project templating options for sphinx-quickstart


Invocation of sphinx-build
==========================

The :program:`sphinx-build` script builds a Sphinx documentation set.  It is
called like this:

.. code-block:: console

   $ sphinx-build [options] sourcedir builddir [filenames]

where *sourcedir* is the :term:`source directory`, and *builddir* is the
directory in which you want to place the built documentation.  Most of the time,
you don't need to specify any *filenames*.

The :program:`sphinx-build` script has several options:

.. program:: sphinx-build

.. option:: -b buildername

   The most important option: it selects a builder.  The most common builders
   are:

   **html**
      Build HTML pages.  This is the default builder.

   **dirhtml**
      Build HTML pages, but with a single directory per document.  Makes for
      prettier URLs (no ``.html``) if served from a webserver.

   **singlehtml**
      Build a single HTML with the whole content.

   **htmlhelp**, **qthelp**, **devhelp**, **epub**
      Build HTML files with additional information for building a documentation
      collection in one of these formats.

   **applehelp**
      Build an Apple Help Book.  Requires :program:`hiutil` and
      :program:`codesign`, which are not Open Source and presently only
      available on Mac OS X 10.6 and higher.

   **latex**
      Build LaTeX sources that can be compiled to a PDF document using
      :program:`pdflatex`.

   **man**
      Build manual pages in groff format for UNIX systems.

   **texinfo**
      Build Texinfo files that can be processed into Info files using
      :program:`makeinfo`.

   **text**
      Build plain text files.

   **gettext**
      Build gettext-style message catalogs (``.pot`` files).

   **doctest**
      Run all doctests in the documentation, if the :mod:`~sphinx.ext.doctest`
      extension is enabled.

   **linkcheck**
      Check the integrity of all external links.

   **xml**
     Build Docutils-native XML files.

   **pseudoxml**
     Build compact pretty-printed "pseudo-XML" files displaying the
     internal structure of the intermediate document trees.

   See :ref:`builders` for a list of all builders shipped with Sphinx.
   Extensions can add their own builders.

.. option:: -a

   If given, always write all output files.  The default is to only write output
   files for new and changed source files.  (This may not apply to all
   builders.)

.. option:: -E

   Don't use a saved :term:`environment` (the structure caching all
   cross-references), but rebuild it completely.  The default is to only read
   and parse source files that are new or have changed since the last run.

.. option:: -t tag

   Define the tag *tag*.  This is relevant for :rst:dir:`only` directives that
   only include their content if this tag is set.

   .. versionadded:: 0.6

.. option:: -d path

   Since Sphinx has to read and parse all source files before it can write an
   output file, the parsed source files are cached as "doctree pickles".
   Normally, these files are put in a directory called :file:`.doctrees` under
   the build directory; with this option you can select a different cache
   directory (the doctrees can be shared between all builders).

.. option:: -j N

   Distribute the build over *N* processes in parallel, to make building on
   multiprocessor machines more effective.  Note that not all parts and not all
   builders of Sphinx can be parallelized.

   .. versionadded:: 1.2
      This option should be considered *experimental*.

.. option:: -c path

   Don't look for the :file:`conf.py` in the source directory, but use the given
   configuration directory instead.  Note that various other files and paths
   given by configuration values are expected to be relative to the
   configuration directory, so they will have to be present at this location
   too.

   .. versionadded:: 0.3

.. option:: -C

   Don't look for a configuration file; only take options via the ``-D`` option.

   .. versionadded:: 0.5

.. option:: -D setting=value

   Override a configuration value set in the :file:`conf.py` file.  The value
   must be a number, string, list or dictionary value.

   For lists, you can separate elements with a comma like this: ``-D
   html_theme_path=path1,path2``.

   For dictionary values, supply the setting name and key like this:
   ``-D latex_elements.docclass=scrartcl``.

   For boolean values, use ``0`` or ``1`` as the value.

   .. versionchanged:: 0.6
      The value can now be a dictionary value.

   .. versionchanged:: 1.3
      The value can now also be a list value.

.. option:: -A name=value

   Make the *name* assigned to *value* in the HTML templates.

   .. versionadded:: 0.5

.. option:: -n

   Run in nit-picky mode.  Currently, this generates warnings for all missing
   references.  See the config value :confval:`nitpick_ignore` for a way to
   exclude some references as "known missing".

.. option:: -N

   Do not emit colored output.

.. option:: -v

   Increase verbosity (loglevel).  This option can be given up to three times
   to get more debug logging output.  It implies :option:`-T`.

   .. versionadded:: 1.2

.. option:: -q

   Do not output anything on standard output, only write warnings and errors to
   standard error.

.. option:: -Q

   Do not output anything on standard output, also suppress warnings.  Only
   errors are written to standard error.

.. option:: -w file

   Write warnings (and errors) to the given file, in addition to standard error.

.. option:: -W

   Turn warnings into errors.  This means that the build stops at the first
   warning and ``sphinx-build`` exits with exit status 1.

.. option:: -T

   Display the full traceback when an unhandled exception occurs.  Otherwise,
   only a summary is displayed and the traceback information is saved to a file
   for further analysis.

   .. versionadded:: 1.2

.. option:: -P

   (Useful for debugging only.)  Run the Python debugger, :mod:`pdb`, if an
   unhandled exception occurs while building.

.. option:: -h, --help, --version

   Display usage summary or Sphinx version.

   .. versionadded:: 1.2

You can also give one or more filenames on the command line after the source and
build directories.  Sphinx will then try to build only these output files (and
their dependencies).

Environment variables
---------------------

The :program:`sphinx-build` refers following environment variables:

.. describe:: MAKE

   A path to make command.  A command name is also allowed.
   :program:`sphinx-build` uses it to invoke sub-build process on make-mode.

Makefile options
----------------

The :file:`Makefile` and :file:`make.bat` files created by
:program:`sphinx-quickstart` by default run :program:`sphinx-build` only
with the :option:`-b` and :option:`-d` options.  However, they support
the following environment variables to customize behavior:

.. describe:: PAPER

   The value for :confval:`latex_paper_size`.

.. describe:: SPHINXBUILD

   The command to use instead of ``sphinx-build``.

.. describe:: BUILDDIR

   The build directory to use instead of the one chosen in
   :program:`sphinx-quickstart`.

.. describe:: SPHINXOPTS

   Additional options for :program:`sphinx-build`.

On Linux, ``make`` supports the typical chaining of make targets::

    ~/git/foo/doc$ make clean html

On Windows, ``make.bat`` has been upgraded to support similar behavior
(previously it could only process a single build target)::

    C:\git\foo\doc> make clean html

Additionally, the above :program:`sphinx-build` options (except ``-b``)
can be supplied as arguments to ``make.bat``::

    C:\git\foo\doc> make html latex text -E

In the above example, the documentation would be built with the ``-E`` option
on all three of the ``html``, ``latex`` and ``text`` targets.

.. versionchanged:: 1.6.3

.. _when-deprecation-warnings-are-displayed:

Deprecation Warnings
--------------------

If any deprecation warning like ``RemovedInSphinxXXXWarning`` are displayed
when building a user's document, some Sphinx extension is using deprecated
features. In that case, please report it to author of the extension.

To disable the deprecation warnings, please set ``PYTHONWARNINGS=`` environment
variable to your environment. For example:

* ``PYTHONWARNINGS= make html`` (Linux/Mac)
* ``export PYTHONWARNINGS=`` and do ``make html`` (Linux/Mac)
* ``set PYTHONWARNINGS=`` and do ``make html`` (Windows)
* modify your Makefile/make.bat and set the environment variable


.. _invocation-apidoc:

Invocation of sphinx-apidoc
===========================

The :program:`sphinx-apidoc` generates completely automatic API documentation
for a Python package.  It is called like this:

.. code-block:: console

   $ sphinx-apidoc [options] -o outputdir packagedir [pathnames]

where *packagedir* is the path to the package to document, and *outputdir* is
the directory where the generated sources are placed.  Any *pathnames* given
are paths to be excluded ignored during generation.

.. warning::

   ``sphinx-apidoc`` generates reST files that use :mod:`sphinx.ext.autodoc` to
   document all found modules.  If any modules have side effects on import,
   these will be executed by ``autodoc`` when ``sphinx-build`` is run.

   If you document scripts (as opposed to library modules), make sure their main
   routine is protected by a ``if __name__ == '__main__'`` condition.


The :program:`sphinx-apidoc` script has several options:

.. program:: sphinx-apidoc

.. option:: -o outputdir

   Gives the directory in which to place the generated output.

.. option:: -f, --force

   Normally, sphinx-apidoc does not overwrite any files.  Use this option to
   force the overwrite of all files that it generates.

.. option:: -n, --dry-run

   With this option given, no files will be written at all.

.. option:: -s suffix

   This option selects the file name suffix of output files.  By default, this
   is ``rst``.

.. option:: -d maxdepth

   This sets the maximum depth of the table of contents, if one is generated.

.. option:: -l, --follow-links

   This option makes sphinx-apidoc follow symbolic links when recursing the
   filesystem to discover packages and modules. You may need it if you want
   to generate documentation from a source directory managed by
   `collective.recipe.omelette
   <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/collective.recipe.omelette/>`_.
   By default, symbolic links are skipped.

   .. versionadded:: 1.2

.. option:: -T, --no-toc

   This prevents the generation of a table-of-contents file ``modules.rst``.
   This has no effect when :option:`--full` is given.

.. option:: -F, --full

   This option makes sphinx-apidoc create a full Sphinx project, using the same
   mechanism as :program:`sphinx-quickstart`.  Most configuration values are set
   to default values, but you can influence the most important ones using the
   following options.

.. option:: --implicit-namespaces

   By default sphinx-apidoc processes sys.path searching for modules only.
   Python 3.3 introduced :pep:`420` implicit namespaces that allow module path
   structures such as ``foo/bar/module.py`` or ``foo/bar/baz/__init__.py``
   (notice that ``bar`` and ``foo`` are namespaces, not modules).

   Specifying this option interprets paths recursively according to PEP-0420.

.. option:: -M

   This option makes sphinx-apidoc put module documentation before submodule
   documentation.

.. option:: -a

   Append module_path to sys.path.

.. option:: -H project

   Sets the project name to put in generated files (see :confval:`project`).

.. option:: -A author

   Sets the author name(s) to put in generated files (see :confval:`copyright`).

.. option:: -V version

   Sets the project version to put in generated files (see :confval:`version`).

.. option:: -R release

   Sets the project release to put in generated files (see :confval:`release`).
